First look - use cases (#394)
mozilla/frost: docs/UseCases.rst

=====================
Use Cases & Philosopy
=====================

.. warning:: Incorrect Information below

    Until this document is reviewed and corrected, it is known to contain errors, especially w.r.t. philosopy.

> Philosopy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Philosophy
```

=========

Frost is intended to build upon the pytest framework to provide extra features to support "infrastructure auditing".

The added features include:

    - providing a standard way to inject meta data in the JSON test result file.
    - providing a CLI wrapper (the ``frost`` program) to simplify execution of tests within the full supported frost environment.

Note that the added features are all extensions to the normal pytest operations. Therefore, all tests can be executed directly from pytest. This can be highly useful for adhoc queries, and the development of new tests.

Target Domain
-------------

> Frost is intended to simplify the process of auditing existing system configurations, when the configuration data is accessible via an API. Frost assumes that the test results (in JSON format) will be acted upon by a subsequent non-Frost process.

Reviewer: >Frost assumes that the test results (in JSON format) will be acted upon by a subsequent non-Frost process.

I'm not sure if it is accurate to say that "Frost assumes this". This is true, but Frost just outputs a standardized json report.

Might be more accurate to say something like "Frost is solely scoped to auditing controls and providing a report of the current state"

Author: mmm - I was thinking "frost the system", but I see it's confusing. The JSON report is one of the big customizations w.r.t. basic pytest. Let me scratch my head a bit here.

Author: @ajvb [rewrite](https://github.com/hwine/frost/compare/hwine%2Fusecases%5E...hwine%2Fusecases?diff=unified#diff-5fe763154d28cda87f636430568dc6849423e32e791ec62e08d75bbd1171b81aL24-L25) any better?

> Since, in general, the number of configuration items to check is not statically known when the test is writen or executed, some lesser used features of pytest are needed. In particular, the test collection phase often requires API calls to the service to discover the complete tree (or network) of configuration items to be checked. While uncommon in internet examples, dynamic test discovery is fully supported by pytest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since, in general, the number of configuration items to check is not statically known when the test is writen or executed, some lesser used features of pytest are needed. In particular, the test collection phase often requires API calls to the service to discover the complete list of resources to be checked. While uncommon in internet examples, dynamic test discovery is fully supported by pytest.
```

> In practice, many of the same calls needed to determine the list of items may need to be repeated to collect the additional information needed by one or more tests. This leads to a tension between collecting all potentially needed data in the first (discovery) pass, or making many duplicate calls to the service as each test collects the additional information it requires.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In practice, many of the same calls needed to determine the list of resources may need to be repeated to collect the additional information needed by one or more tests. This leads to a tension between collecting all potentially needed data in the first (discovery) pass, or making many duplicate calls to the service as each test collects the additional information it requires. Currently, Frost collects all need resources during the first pass and caches them for use by other tests within the same run of Frost and by subsequent runs of Frost. 
```

Author: I'll admit this a part that is still fuzzy for me. I think it may more accurately be expressed as "Frost best practices call for caching..." (or some such).

GitHub branches does the final "get all the details" at test time, not collection time. If I didn't, it'd be back to the massive "collect the world" approach that the current 10hr metrics runs take.

I'll work on this piece some more.

Author: @ajvb please see [this added material](https://github.com/hwine/frost/compare/hwine%2Fusecases%5E...hwine%2Fusecases?diff=unified#diff-5fe763154d28cda87f636430568dc6849423e32e791ec62e08d75bbd1171b81aR33-R40). 

Let me know what still needs to change.

> Use Cases

Reviewer: I'm confused by what this sections is about. Is this "Use Cases for Frost"?

Author: Yes.

=========

> - as an automation system, I want to execute robustly, so folks can trust my reporting.

Reviewer: What does this mean?

Author: > What does this mean?

That following the precedent of "Citizen's United", I am granting personage to our silicon overlords.

What I'm trying to express is that frost's most important use case is to be run from automation. So no fancy dialogue with the operator, occasional stack traces, etc should be in the product.

Author: @ajvb  please see [this change](https://github.com/hwine/frost/compare/hwine%2Fusecases%5E...hwine%2Fusecases?diff=unified#diff-5fe763154d28cda87f636430568dc6849423e32e791ec62e08d75bbd1171b81aR47), please resolve it that addresses the issue.

.. mermaid::

    sequenceDiagram
        
        participant p1 as Path 1
        participant s as Service
        participant c as Pytest Managed Data
        participant p2 as Path 2

    note over p1, p2: Test Collection Phase
    note over p1: AWS, gSuite, ...
        p1->>+s: enumerate resources and data
        s->>-p1: all data
        p1 ->> c: resources & data

    note over c: Pytest Data Caching
    note over p2: GitHub (new)
        p2->>+s: enumerate resources
        s->>-p2: all resources
        p2->>c: resources

    note over p1, p2: Test Execution Phase

    c-->>p1: data for test

    c-->>p2: resources for test
    p2->>+s: request data for resource
    s->>-p2: data for test      

    note over c: Results caching

        p1->>c: test results
        p2->>c: test results

    note over p1, p2: Paths rejoin here for test output processing

In both cases, all test output is delivered in a JSON file for subsequent processing as appropriate.

Frost Supported Use Cases
=========================

While Frost could be considered a wrapper around pytest, it is optimized to support the following use cases:

> - as part of an automated system, Frost will execute robustly, and  without user intervention, so folks can trust my reporting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- as part of an automated system, Frost will execute robustly, and without user intervention, so folks can trust my reporting.
```
